[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: All right, so
how we doing with the click listener part?
Are we doing okay with that?
>> Brian Holt: All right, so
because we're nice people and
we like to let our users know, in fact
I'll just start going along with you.
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna have,
what did I call that button?
>> Speaker 2: BTN.
>> Brian Holt: BTN.
>> Brian Holt: So we are going to
have ('.btn').click(function(), okay.
Voila!
Click listener.
Okay, and let's just like,
we'll just throw up an alert real quick
just to make sure that actually works.
Like you'll find that this is a common
practice like did this actually work?
Does this actually do
what I think it does?
So we click here hey if actually does
like listen for click events, okay.
So awesome.
Step one done, okay.
Let's go ahead and throw up a little
loading thing to be nice to our users, so
what did I comment a little text.
I guess that's a misnomer
because it's not actually gonna
be text after we're done with it but
we'll be okay.
Text dot yeah, go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: Somebody tried to declare
a function before the ajax call and
then they wanted to call that function,
where the anonymous function was declared.
>> Brian Holt: Sure you can do that.
>> Speaker 2: But
he says it's not working I guess.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
you'd have like function.
>> Brian Holt: I guess it'd be
like var function = responder or
something like that, okay.
Or sorry, var responder = function, okay.
And we'll just throw our alert in here,
right.
Alert here and here you would,
rather than putting in a function,
you would say responder.
There should look somewhat familiar right,
like you can pass functions
around like variables, okay.
And then we should be able to click
there and assess here, right.
That's also possible, I'm a big proponent
of doing anonymous function in listener
because typically you only want
to call that from one place, so
it makes sense to do it that way.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
let's throw up a .text.text.
Didn't actually mean to do it that way and
we're gonna say loading right like that.
So now when we click it says loading.
Okay, so now our user is informed,
it's like I have received your input.
Hold tight, and I'm gonna give you
this thing that you're looking for.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so now this is
where we actually go out and like,
reach out to the server.
So, what jQuery functionality
am I gonna use?
Ajax, awesome, so, I'll give you a sec to,
to give that a shot again if you,
if you want to, if you want to
refer back to the one where we were
reaching out to the Meetup API, probably
would be a pretty good thing to do.
The one thing I will caution you that is
different from the previous one is that
part where it says JSON for the Meetup API
just leave that entire line out for here.
You don't wanna bring that over.
>> Brian Holt: Reason being
that the Reddit API and
the Meetup API work differently that way.
Why don't we even go back for
just a sec and bring it up here.
>> Brian Holt: Let's even
go back to the earlier one
that's just really simple, okay.
Again this is the meetup
one that you click and
it just blahs all over your web page.
You got text out loading
just like in our other one.
We're going to do dollar
sign dot ajax right.
Still doing a get request.
We're going to a different URL.
We're going to the read it
API not the meet up API, and
then we're going to have
a success function in there.
Should look somewhat like this.
In fact, if you wanted to just test
it out to make sure it's working,
just go ahead and throw literally
this exact line in there, right.
Text.text json.stringified data and
you'll see it.
It should just blah the entire
Reddit API response all over web page.
>> Brian Holt: Honestly,
this is pretty much unchanged,
other than leaving out datatype, JSONP and
change the URL and then it should work.
Again, just as an overarching
concept about learning to program.
There is no shame, there is nothing wrong
from copying other people doing and
modifying it to your own use case.
My only caveat to that is,
do your absolute best to understand
what's going on and why you're doing it.
It's a really bad thing to pull code out,
throw it on a page and
then not understand what's going on.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so let's go ahead and
work on this API call a little bit.
So as you might imagine, $.ajax.
Okay,
>> Brian Holt: Type: "GET".
url,
>> Brian Holt: Sorry,
not function rather we want just
literally copy and pasting this.
I guess it's not literally I'm
not cutting it out of my monitor.
But figuratively copying and pasting.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, with me so far?
And then we just need to
give it a success listener.
>> Brian Holt: Which by the way,
we were talking about events,
this success function is just an event
listener just like a click function is.
The ajax goes out, it completes and
it fires off an event and it says hey.
I finished the thing that I was doing.
Okay, he finished.
I was listening for that.
Now I'm going to go do this.
Same concept at play here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay and
now we're gonna say.
>> Brian Holt: Somebody might be wondering
where this data comes from like is it just
magical?
It's one of those things that you have
just to know that the API documentation
will tell you that whenever a success
function comes back from jQuery
it's just going to give you data.
It is this way because they
programmed it that way,
and you know that by looking
at the documentation.
>> Brian Holt: So
there's not some secret handshake or
something that you don't know about
that's going on behind the scenes,
it's just you have to read the
documentation to figure that out, okay.
$('.text').text then we
do a JSON.stringify the data okay.
>> Brian Holt: Lo and
behold, now when we click.
>> Brian Holt: Here we're getting the
entire response just kind of vomited out
on the page in all of its glory.
>> Brian Holt: We follow this so far?
This makes sense?
This is just more or less reviewing what
exactly we did with the meet up one, okay?
All right so,
question now becomes, we want to
display them nicely as images, right?
We don't want it to just throw up on the
page, we actually want it to do something.
Okay, so the first thing we need
to do is we need to go back and
look at what the data looks like.
In this case,
we have a thing called data, right,
and that's where all of our data is being
stored and it's inside of data.children.
So let's get rid of that one.
So let's just get rid of this, okay?
So, we need to loop over data.children,
right, because there's many
entries in data.children and we wanna get
all the images out of each one of them.
So, we're gonna write a for loop.
Right, that should sound like something
that you would use a for loop for, okay?
So for var i = 0; i is less than what?
So we have data which is the whole object.
In fact I'm gonna change
the name of this to be response.
>> Brian Holt: They might say
like you can't do that, right?
It's called data.
Well in reality,
you can call whatever you want.
You can call this like, thisIsNotData or
whatever you want to call it, right?
This is totally up to you to call it,
you just have to know that the data's
always gonna come in that first parameter.
So whatever you call that first parameter,
that's just from there on out
you have to call it that.
So I'm gonna call it response just for
a little bit of clarity's sake.
So response,
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
and I'll show you, right?
So it's gonna be response.data.
A lot of people, when they see data.data,
get really weirded out.
So I just wanted to clarify where
each one is coming from, okay?
So we're in response.data, which response
is now this entire object, right?
And data is this object right here, right?
So now we need to go into children, right?
Which is right here.
So .children.
And then we wanna loop over all
of children's containing all
the objects inside of it.
So if you remember,
we can do that if we just say .length.
That'll give us the number of
how long children is, okay?
That's it, now we're just gonna say i++
which means at the end of every loop,
increments your counter.
And now we have a for loop that we're
going to loop over each one of them, okay?
So let's,
>> Brian Holt: I
don't want to do an alert cuz
that would be really bad, but
let's just do a console.log of
response.data.children[i], right?
Which is gonna give us each individual
child inside of that array.
So let's just try that,
see what happens here.
Look at our console and we should see a
lot of these objects just been logged out
right, we can look at anyone of them and
see.
>> Brian Holt: Hey look,
this one is called by author puppy, and
it's from Imgur, right?
So now we're just logging out each
individual object that's coming from
the API, okay?
So now we know that our
API call is working, and
we're looping over it correctly.
Are you okay with that so far?
Okay, I'll take that as silent compliance.
>> Brian Holt: So, awesome.
>> Brian Holt: Now we have this data.
We have each individual child
that we can address now, okay?
What do we wanna get out
of each individual child?
Well if you notice,
each child has a thumbnail, right?
So this one has a thumbnail.
We scroll down here,
this one has a thumbnail.
Scroll down a little bit,
That's what actually we care about,
cuz that's what we're gonna be displaying.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
what we're gonna do is
we're gonna use our jQuery magics and
we're gonna say .text.
What method are we gonna use here?
What happens if we use .HTML here?
We're only gonna see the last one
cuz it's gonna replace all of them.
And the last one will be
the last one displayed, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Somebody's asking about
they thought success was deprecated,
and you should be using done and fail.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so yes but no.
[LAUGH]
So there's a thing in
JavaScript called promises,
we're not talking about them today.
It's kind of the newer way
of dealing with responses.
This is the easier way for
people to get started into it and
they accomplish the same thing so
we're gonna stick with this.
>> Speaker 3: If you're
interesting in learning that one.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: Take the jQuery course.
But deferreds.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
I mean they're called deferreds,
promises,
>> Brian Holt: But
yeah, if you're really interested
in learning about that,
go check it out on either Frontend Masters
or search for like JavaScript promises.
Okay, so actually let's just
even build this before.
>> Brian Holt: Oops,
I didn't want to delete that did I?
There we go.
I want that.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're gonna build an image tag now for
each one of these, right?
So we're gonna say this is like my image,
right?
And we're just gonna say img src= and
you just wanna stick its thumbnail there,
right?
So we're gonna put something here but
we're just gonna close
this out real quick, okay?
>> Brian Holt: In the middle here, it's
gonna be this response.data.children[i],
right, in which what do we actually
want to get out of each child?
We want to get the thumbnail, right?
So we're just gonna say .thumbnail.
So this is gonna go into the response
object this is gonna go on the data
object.
Then we're gonna go through
the entire children array.
For each one of them we're
gonna grab out the thumbnail.
That's what that says.
We now have an image tag, right?
So you might be tempted to do
.text .html and then say image.
>> Brian Holt: Let's try that.
>> Brian Holt: Well we got nothing so
that's not good at all.
>> Brian Holt: Unexpected token.
>> Brian Holt: Let's see
var image = "img src".
>> Brian Holt: All of that needs to be.
>> Brian Holt: [INAUDIBLE] Okay, so like
this getting something there but no image.
>> Brian Holt: Source equals undefined so?
What's happening here?
>> Speaker 3: You have a single quote and
a double quote next to each other?
>> Brian Holt: So that's a good question,
why do we have that?
So this is a string literal, so
this is telling JavaScript I
literally want you to put this there.
But if you remember,
when you're looking at source right?
If I go up here and say, ing src= it
needs to have quotes in it, right?
So you actually need to have JavaScript
to print out quotes in there.
It's kind of weird, right?
The other thing is, if you want it to do,
well and the reason why I don't do double
quotes there, cuz otherwise,
JavaScript's gonna get confused.
In fact, you can see my
syntax highly messed up here.
So it doesn't care as long
as your matching quotes.
In fact, now I'm having a hard time.
There you go.
So this is going to be inside the string,
and it's required because JavaScript or
rather HTML needs that quote to
parse the image source correctly.
Does that makes sense?
>> Brian Holt: Response data children.
>> Speaker 2: In check there, actually
do you need a data after the children?
>> Brian Holt: Yep that's it, thank you.
>> Brian Holt: So what they kindly pointed
out to me online is that each child has
its own data attribute, right?
So there's data right there,
there's also data right there.
And notice, I was getting undefined.
Why was I getting undefined?
Because I was trying to access
a property that didn't actually,
that undefined, right?
So JavaScript says, you're trying to
get something that's not defined,
so screw you, have it undefined.
Or here, you asked for
it so you can have it.
[LAUGH] That's probably more akin.
I make JavaScript to be a cruel mistress.
Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Let's try that.
>> Brian Holt: Can you check out
your little puppy right there?
That's nice, okay so
now we have only one image why?
Because we are using HTML when in reality
we should be using append, right?
Cuz we wanna be
continuously adding things.
Okay, so now, we try doing this.
Now behold, many puppies.
>> Brian Holt: Now we still have
this loading thing here, why?
Well when it loops through the first time,
it's not gonna replace it,
it's always going to append.
And once you are done loading,
you actually wanna get rid
of the loading thing right?
So what we would do is, we would just
remove it as soon as it came back.
So before the four loop,
we're just gonna say,
$.text.HTML or text,
either one would be fine.
And just say that.
Please clear out everything you have.
Make yourself an empty string.
I'm about to give you a bunch more
stuff so you can have content.
Now if we say click me,
now we actually have real puppies.
And some of these thumbnails won't work.
Not really sure why but
that's the case and then you can do
all sorts of fun things now, right?
I can say cat, and we'll get kitty's back.
Or we can say duck.
>> Brian Holt: And
we'll get cute ducks back.
>> Brian Holt: Look, little ducks.
Yeah, but kinda cool right?
We've now built this app that will give
us a bunch of cute pictures from Reddit,
really this is kind of
the first app we've built.
Pretty entertaining right?.
Now if you wanna take this a step
further what could you do right?
You could actually have an input box
at the user or put in something and
then you would change the URL here and
you would put whatever the user input
was there and then you would
change what you were searching for
based on what the user asks for.
I hope you kinda start and see here I'm
giving you a bunch of puzzle pieces that
fit together in a bunch of different
ways or like Legos is probably a better
way of putting it and
you can build a spaceship or whatever.
You can build whatever using these
tools whatever you can think of.
>> Brian Holt: Does this make
sense what we've done here?
>> Brian Holt: Now if I asked you to go
write something really similar to this do
you think you could do it now?
>> Brian Holt: The answer is,
probably with difficulty, but
the answer is with difficulty
is better than no.
>> Speaker 4: [CROSSTALK]
Some of the pictures
are coming back as not found.
Is there a way you could capture
that in your loop and say okay.
Don't display those?
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Brian Holt: So
probably what you'd wanna do is you'd
wanna have some, is this a url?
If this is a url, then display it,
if not, don't display it.
So use an if statement, right?
If it's displayable, then display it,
if it's not then don't.
I'm not going to do that right now,
but that's what you would do.
>> Brian Holt: You could also
change the subreddit here.
I do not want to change the subreddit.
I trust aww,
I do not trust the rest of Reddit.
But you could also search for
other things on other subreddits as well.
That's kind of something we could do.
>> Brian Holt: How about this?
Does this little line right here,
the response.data.children.data thumbnail,
do that make sense to people?
Have we talked about that like you're
accessing properties inside of
an object that's just get's really,
really, really nested?